come clean
The government should come clean about its plans.
The government should tell the truth about its plans.
He came clean to the party.  
He told the truth at the party. 

get on board
We cannot expect other countries to get on board if we don't set a good example. 
We cannot expect other countries to join if we don't set a good example. 
Don't be afraid of falling into the water, get on board. 
Don't be afraid of falling into the water, join us. 

drop ball
The riots on the streets show the government has dropped the ball.
The riots on the streets show the government has lost control.
He was just about to throw to the pitcher when he dropped the ball. 
He was just about to throw to the pitcher when he lost control.

stuck to guns
He should have stuck to his guns and leave her.
He should have refused to change his decision and leave her. 
She stuck to her gun to be able to protect herself. 
She refused to change her decision to protect herself. 

pick up the slack
Without another contract to help pick up the slack, employees may face job losses.
Without another contract to help enhance effectiveness, employees may face job losses.
The sail is not working, pick up that slack! 
The sail is not working, be more efficient!

have a field day
The newspapers had a field day when the scandal was uncovered.
The newspapers happily took advantage when the scandal was uncovered.
Next year I will have more field days in the nature.
Next year I will happily take advantage in the nature.

crack the whip
As editor, Dorothy likes to crack the whip.
As editor, Dorothy likes to make people very hard.
Crack the whip if you want your horses win the competition. 
Make people work hard if you want your horses win the competition. 


butter s/one up
Don't think you can butter me up that easily.
Don't think you can flatter me that easily.
I have buttered her hair up during the dinner. 
I have complemented her hair during the dinner. 

pick s/one's brain
This is so interesting. I need to pick your brains on this.
This is so interesting. I need to question you on this.
The doctor picked her brain during surgery.
The doctor questioned her during surgery.