scratching their heads
This crisis has politicians scratching their heads and wondering what to do.
This crisis has politicians thinking and wondering what to do.
He was watching his kids playing and was scratching his head. 
He was watching his kids playing and thinking. 

shift gears
In the middle of the second act the play shifts gears from comedy to tragedy.
In the middle of the second act the play changes from comedy to tragedy.
He shifted the gears to get to his goal destination faster. 
He changed to get to his goal destination faster. 

speak same language
Politically they are our enemies, but when it comes to trade I think we speak the same language.
Politically they are our enemies, but when it comes to trade I think we have the same opinions.
He is happy to finally meet people who speak the same language as he does. 
He is happy to finally meet people who have the same opinion as he does. 

spill the beans
Does Phillip know about our plan?" "Yes, someone must have spilled the beans.
Does Phillip know about our plan?" "Yes, someone must have revealed the secret.
Promise not to spill the beans when in the kitchen. 
Promise not to reveal the secrets when in the kitchen.

join the club
If you're confused, join the club!
If you're confused, we are in the same situation.
He was unsure if he wanted to join the club. 
He was unsure if he wanted to be in the same situation. 

tighten belt
Businesses were tightening their belts and cutting jobs.
Businesses were saving the money and cutting jobs.
He tightened the belt and was ready to travel.
He saved the money and was ready to travel. 


S dirty work
Tell Fran I'm not going to do her dirty work for her.
Tell Fran I'm not going to do the unpleasant work for her.
Digging in the garden is a dirty work. 
Digging in the garden is an unpleasant work. 

S whiter than white
He said that he had never claimed to be whiter than white.
He said that he had never claimed to be perfect.
He washed his shirts many times and they looked whiter than white.
He washed his shirts many times and they looked perfect.

turn the tables
The tables were turned in the second half, when Leeds United scored from the penalty spot.
The situation changed in the second half, when Leeds United scored from the penalty spot.
His colleagues were very mean to him so he changed the tables.
His colleagues were very mean to him so he changed the situation. 

making waves
What gradually emerged was a project that is still making waves in economics.
What gradually emerged was a project that is still causing problems in economics.
The motorboat driver was making waves. 
The motorboat driver was causing problems. 

miss the boat
You’ll miss the boat if you don’t buy shares now.
You’ll miss the opportunity if you don’t buy shares now.
You’ll miss the boat if you don’t take her with you. 
You’ll miss the opportunity if you don’t buy take her with you.

hit the roof
Put that back before Dad sees you and hits the roof!
Put that back before Dad sees you and gets angry!
The kids hit the roof when playing fotboll. 
The kids got angry when playing fotboll. 

chewing fat
Randall stayed around chewing the fat for a while.
Randall stayed around having a conversation for a while.
It’s very common in Greenland to chew the fat. 

It’s very common in Greenland to have a conversaton.


come clean
The government should come clean about its plans.
The government should tell the truth about its plans.
He came clean in the meeting room. 
He told the truth in the meeting room. 

add fuel to the fire
Rather than providing a solution, their statements merely added fuel to the fire.
Rather than providing a solution, their statements made the argument worse.
Be careful when you add fuel to the fire, you can hurt someone. 
Be careful when you make an argument worse, you can hurt someone. 

have kittens
She had kittens when she got the bill.
She got upset when she got the bill.
Her grandmother has kittens. 
Her grandmother got upset. 

hit the road
We hit the road before sunrise.
We start travelling before sunrise. 
Anna  saw the cyclist hitting the road.
Anna saw the cyclist starting his travel. 

